# OceanBase Deployer V2.5.0

## Version information

* Release date: December 29, 2023

* Version: V2.5.0

## Overview

* Changing components in a deployed cluster is supported. For more information about the commands, see the **obd cluster component add** and **obd cluster component del** sections in the [Cluster commands](../../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md) topic. For more information about the operations, see [Scale out a cluster and change cluster components](../../400.user-guide/300.command-line-operations/900.expansion-and-component-changes.md).

* Scale-out of all components except OCP-Server is supported. For more information about the commands, see the **obd cluster scale_out** section in the [Cluster commands](../../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md) topic. For more information about the operations, see [Scale out a cluster and change cluster components](../../400.user-guide/300.command-line-operations/900.expansion-and-component-changes.md).

* The OBLogProxy component is supported. For more information, see [Deploy OBLogProxy by using the CLI](../../400.user-guide/300.command-line-operations/360.deploy-oblogproxy.md).

* OceanBase Diagnostic Tool (obdiag) V1.5.0 is supported. For more information, see the **obd obdiag analyze flt_trace** section in the [obdiag commands](../../300.obd-command/500.obdiag-command.md) topic.

* The task timeout and automatic exit mechanisms of the web service are optimized.

## Bug fixes

* Fixed the permission issue that stops specified users from starting OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP).

* Fixed the issue where the OCP upgrade to the specified version does not take effect.

* Fixed the issue that occurs while destroying a multi-node OCP cluster.

* The processing logic of OCP-dependent tenants is optimized and unnecessary option dependencies are removed.

* The verification of parameter types is enhanced.
