# OceanBase Deployer V2.0.0

## Version information

* Release date: March 23, 2023

* Version: V2.0.0

## Overview

* This version provides the `obd web` command for you to perform OBD GUI-based deployment. For more information, see [Deploy an OceanBase cluster on the GUI](../../200.quick-start/300.use-ui-deploy-oceanbase.md).

* This version provides the `obd display-trace` command for you to view execution logs. For more information, see **obd display-trace** in [Tool commands](../../300.obd-command/400.tools-commands.md).

* This version provides the `obd cluster tenant show` command for you to view tenants in a cluster. For more information, see **obd cluster tenant show** in [Cluster commands](../../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md).

* This version provides the `obd mirror add-repo` command for you to add a local mirror repository. For more information, see **obd mirror add-repo** in [Mirror and repository commands](../../300.obd-command/200.command-group-for-mirroring-and-warehousing.md).

* This version provides the `--generate-consistent-config` or `--gcc` option for you to generate consistent configurations for multiple servers by running the `obd cluster autodeploy` command. By default, this option is set to `false`.

* This version supports the deployment of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Express. For more information, see [Deploy OCP Express by using commands](../../400.user-guide/300.deploy-ocp-express-by-using-obd.md).

* This version supports the deployment of OceanBase Agent (OBAgent) V1.3.0.

* This version supports automatic test tuning for OceanBase Database V4.1.0.0.

* This version improves the interaction experience after a configuration modification.

* This version optimizes the start check process by providing progress tracking, suggestions for fixing issues, and the ability to automatically apply the fixes.

* This version optimizes the logic of the `obd cluster display` command, which no longer requires that all nodes be alive.

* This version optimizes the lock logic. A read-only command no longer requests a lock.

* This version provides the `ENV_LOCK_MODE` variable for you to set the lock level by running the `obd env set ENV_LOCK_MODE` command.

* This version adjusts the plug-in calling method, provides a plug-in runtime space, and allows plug-ins to transmit information through the runtime space.

## Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue that OceanBase Database is allowed to start when the value of the `system_memory` parameter is greater than that of the `memory_limit` parameter.

* Fixed an issue that a dashboard exception occurred during the remote deployment of Grafana.

* Fixed an issue where an error occurred when OBD was used to perform the TPC-H or TPC-C benchmark test on OceanBase Database V4.0.0.0.

* Fixed errors in the example configuration files.
