# OceanBase Deployer V2.1.0

## Version information

* Release date: May 19, 2023

* Version: V2.1.0

## Overview

* This version supports the telemetry mode. In telemetry mode, OceanBase Deployer (OBD) may collect and desensitize the deployment information, and then send the desensitized information to OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Telemetry commands](../../300.obd-command/600.telemetry-commands.md).

* This version allows you to run the `obd obdiag` command to call obdiag. For more information, see [obdiag commands](../../300.obd-command/500.obdiag-command.md).

* This version supports the upgrade of OceanBase Database Community Edition from V4.0 to V4.1. For more information, see [Upgrade OceanBase Database](../../400.user-guide/300.command-line-operations/700.update-oceanbase.md).

* This version supports the deployment of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Express V1.0.1 and the upgrade of OCP Express. For more information, see [Upgrade OCP Express](../../400.user-guide/300.command-line-operations/600.update-ocp-express.md).

* The GUI of OBD is available in English.

* This version supports the configuration of SSH ports during OBD GUI-based deployment.

* This version supports generating random passwords during deployment to avoid security issues caused by default passwords and empty passwords.

* This version optimizes the installation progress and installation report experience during OBD GUI-based deployment.

* This version improves the user experience in scenarios such as network disconnection and multi-tasking during OBD GUI-based deployment.

## Bug fixes

* Fixed errors in the example configuration files.

* Fixed an issue where, after completing OBD GUI-based deployment, the backend did not exit the obd process and continued deployment, resulting in possible errors in component information.
