# OceanBase Deployer V1.3.0

## Version information

* Release date: March 30, 2022

* Version: V1.3.0

## Overview

* This version allows OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) to take over OceanBase clusters deployed by using OBD. For more information, see [Use OCP to take over a cluster deployed by OBD](../../400.user-guide/400.OCP-takeover-OBD-deployment-cluster.md).

* This version provides the `cluster` configuration style for OceanBase Database, which allows you to specify IDC information.

* This version supports the deployment of OceanBase Agent (OBAgent) V1.1.1.

* This version supports the deployment of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) Community Edition V3.2.3.

* This version supports the restart of an OceanBase cluster in rolling mode.

* This version allows you to modify the `username` parameter for the deployment. A restart is required for the modification to take effect.

* This version provides the `obd cluster check4ocp` command. For more information, see **obd cluster check4ocp** in [Cluster commands](../../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md).

* This version provides the developer mode. If the developer mode is enabled, you can modify the architecture information. After the modification, the `need redeploy` tag is added to the configuration file.

* This version supports the ARM architecture.

## Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue that the default path is incorrect when you perform a TPC-H benchmark test.

* Fixed an issue that the number of partitions in a DDL statement cannot be adjusted based on the actual situation when you perform a TPC-H benchmark test.
